>> Mike: So, some people have been
waiting for this section all day and
I want to just revisit something we
spoke about earlier called style
reuse that we use mixins to reuse styles.
We defined them once, and
then we were able to include
that mixin into multiple places.
And here's the result in
CSS on the right side.
You see that if we bring danger
in both for a button and alerts,
because we want both to have
a red background, white text,
these are obviously two
unrelated concerns, right.
For us to share a class between these,
that would sort of that doesn't
really feel right in this.
What we end up with this
style on the right.
And what I want you to consider
is how much your styles end
up growing as the mixin
danger ends up growing.
Right, so that was ten lines.
We have 20 lines of that mixin code on
the right side, that's because what ends
up happening when you use a mixin is that
it's almost evaluated like a function.
And the return value of that function
is just drop into that style
declaration block wherever that
mixin was included, right.
And sometimes we wanna be
a little bit more efficient and
there is a way to do it.
And it is using extend.
Extend is a little bit
different than Mixin.
It's another tool we can
use to reuse styles.
But, you can think of this almost as
opting in to all behavior defined,
or all styles defined on another class.
So in this case,
we define a class called danger.
And then .btn-danger is basically
defined as, I wanna do everything that
.danger was doing, but in addition
to that, also to pixels of padding.
And then alert danger says, same here.
Everything that danger was doing,
but in addition to that 100% width.
And what we end up with is style
that doesn't repeat itself at all on
the right hand side, yes.
>> Speaker 2: Unless you're using LESS.
>> Mike: Unless you're using-
>> Speaker 2: LESS.
>> Mike: LESS.
>> Speaker 2: LESS doesn't handle it that
way and it's stupid.
>> Mike: LESS does-
>> Speaker 3: LESS as opposed to
SASS.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> [CROSSTALK]
>> Mike: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Mike: So extend works differently in
LESS than it does in SASS.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, in a bad way,
that's good, just as an FYI.
>> Mike: Good point, yeah, so you'll
see a similar concept in less, but it
doesn't try to consolidate there concerns
into a single declaration block here.
Where you're basically adding
selectors to the same declaration block.
Now this can get you
into trouble because if I
were looking at this code and
it started to get big,
you sometimes lose track of which classes
are around just to be extended from.
So
maybe some of them are extended from, and
they're also used in and of themselves.
And if you imagine that these three things
were broken out across different
files different partials in your
collection of SASS files.
It would be really easy to change danger
without having any awareness that is
going to effect these two other things.
SASS also has an answer for this and
it is the idea of placeholders.
So
placeholders are just like classes,
they begin with a percent sign and
the key difference here is that the output
here does not contain danger at all.
It exists solely to to be extended from.
It is there only as a construct that can
be extended from.
And therefore,
when you come across one of these,
you know that obviously,
same as when I change a variable.
This is going to have a ripple
effect throughout my code.
And I probably should do a search to
see who is consuming this and talk to
them and make sure this is okay that I
modify this thing.
So a practice that sounds pretty good to
me and I haven't really clipped
over my shoes laces yet with it, so
I have advocated it as much as
I am comfortable advocating.
It is the idea that this is an approach
you can take Instead of mixins,
when no variables are involved.
When we simply want to share a style
block, across multiple concerns and
there are no colors to pass, or
no hue rotation involved in the picture.
This is totally fine to use.
And I would say using placeholders
is really the one of the only
safe ways to use extend.
Extend can get out of control really
quickly.
So
if we have a situation like this
even with a placeholder and
a seemingly innocent selector here
can end up generating a whole bunch
of garbage in your in your output CSS.
So especially remember,
when you have like, in the source of
the problem here of course is that,
we've got a lot of nesting and we've
also got multiple selectors pend to each
declaration block.
So we almost get the all possible per
mutations of these thing is now
added to the same style role.
And this can cause your CSS to blow up in
size faster than just about anything.
So some people have linting rules
in place that prevent the use of extend.
And it is for this reason, and
the reason I just mentioned.
Inadvertent modifications to your code,
they seem fine, but then you realize
that six people were hopping
on top of this rule and you had no idea.
You didn't know that you
were gonna affect that and they just
started inheriting from this rule, and
now you've broken their stuff, right?
And
this is the other reason because
pretty soon your CSS is just really,
really selector heavy.
No amount of minification is gonna solve
this problem, it's bad.
Gzipping does help,
but this is not good, so avoid it.
And
the way to avoid it is to keep your
extends at a relatively high level.
Don't go incredibly deep.
Deep selectors
in general are not a great idea.
So, I forget the name of who the author of
this blog post but
there's a great concept put forward
called the inception rule.
If anything you'll see inception,
if you don't go more than four
layers deep into the dream world, or
it just starts to get the hell at
the bottom where there's the building
scrambling all over the place.
So that's number one, and then number two
like always his place holder.
It should extend, even if it involves,
like creating another adapt danger class
that also comes from that place holder.
At least,
then if someone goes to modify that danger
'cause it's directly used somewhere.
So, they are only like
messing with that one thing.
Right,
they are not sending those ripples
unintentionally through your code.